+++
date = 2021-03-14T22:30:01Z
title = "A Playlist and a Story (R&B)"

+++
Right before the pandemic started, I went with a pair of friends to a "club" (large bar) north of The Loop in Chicago called Emporium. It was my first time, but I'm generally unconcerned about the specifics of such an establishment and more interested in the fact that I can buy an adult beverage there. Accordingly, I had no idea what I was walking into.

Rewinding a bit, I was not in the best form that evening. I had managed to ring my own bell (usually you can find someone at the spot to do that for you) at my buddies' house before striking out. While tossing a basketball to myself, I lightly tossed it off the underside of one of those doorway pull-up bars. Much to my surprise, it dislodged itself from the frame and dropped squarely onto the bridge of my nose. It hurt a bit, but I shook it off, tried and failed to reinstall the bar and ended up just leaning it against the wall.

As I came around the corner into the kitchen, one of my friends looked up and was immediately confused."Jake, why are you bleeding?" My nose was still a bit numb, but just then I felt something warm on my face. I ducked into the bathroom, flicked on the light and saw that I was indeed bleeding. It wasn't anything major, but the bar had peeled off a sizable flap on skin on its way down my nose. Given the trail of blood started right between my eyes, it was tough to miss.

The Uber was under 10 minutes out. Knowing little about how nose cuts but far more about how unable I was to be my own doctor, I figured the skin flap would need to stay, a Band-Aid was a no-go and that my best bet was a wet tissue. I pinned one on the cut, stopped the bleeding and felt pretty good about my future as a medic.

As I was waiting around and laughing it off, the physical act of smiling cracked the scab and opened the cut again. Normally, not being able to smile would play right into my hands, but I was out of time. I snatched a fresh tissue and piled into the backseat holding it to my nose. Fortunately for me, a 25-minute ride gives the human body plenty of time to do its thing and staunch the bleeding.

As I looked around Emporium, I noticed there weren't a lot of white people there, and the ones that were there had huddled in the back around some pinball machines. I didn't want to hear the Chainsmokers or Party in the USA from the DJ booth, so I was very pleased by this development_._ I snagged a couple Old Styles because they were $3 and shimmied over to the dance floor. I soon discovered it was 90s R&B night, and I couldn't have been any happier. I came to love the genre in the 2010s, but like any music fan, I know enough of the classics to be more than content with that selection.

After a couple more adult beverages, I was ready to unlock my joints a bit. I shuffled toward the back of the room and found a bit of space to be a spazz without bumping into any couples trying to enjoy their evening. I thought I was blending in fine, but a white dude with a large cut on his nose dancing oddly and looking kind of sweaty with a beer in hand caught a few eyes in a sea of young, in love Black couples. I didn't really get into R&B until \~10 years after the era being featured, so I was mostly just singing the hooks, looking crazy and butchering some dance moves. Come to think of it, the Old Styles probably tipped everyone else off.

Eventually, a group of Black women took pity on me. One of them tapped me on the shoulder, saying "You look like you need some help." Then she took a step back to do a full appraisal–no rhythm, cheap beer, no significant other, a newly healed cut. At that point, I stopped trying to dance all together. I figured she must be spot-on; if she and her friends felt compelled enough to approach me, I must really be in a state.

The woman who spoke up first then said something along the lines of, "Let me show you some steps." I gladly took her up on the offer because I know I can't dance and free lessons weren't often forthcoming. She got me back on beat, the friend group had a couple more chuckles at my footwork and finally I _kinda_ had the hang of it. Unfortunately, the DJ cut on an Aaliyah song, the universal signal to GTFO. Upon hearing that story on the ride home, my kinder friend said she was trying to kick a little game to me; everyone else was far less kind in their assessment. I tend to agree with the latter.

In any case, during the first month or so of the pandemic, I fixated on that night a lot. My longings to go dance, drink, hear loud music and people-watch were crystalized by that rather ordinary Friday night; I had expected nothing and instead had a fabulous time. I just wanted to be able to do that again (and still do). But while at Emporium, I remember thinking I'd look a lot cooler if the songs were from 5-10 years later and I could base my ungainly movements on a tempo and lyrics I knew.

So, I made a playlist: THE EMPORIUM BAG. It's some late 90s/early 2000s R&B that I love and that would still do something in the right room. You'll find some B, some Mariah, some Trey, some newer stuff from the Summer Walker/Ella Mai lane, etc. The theme is R&B for your night out–something with a little bounce, something you probably heard on the radio and (hopefully) something that will bring back some good memories.

<iframe src="[https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/2WpZuTqMAoqFWIAnxwmmjE](https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/2WpZuTqMAoqFWIAnxwmmjE "https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/2WpZuTqMAoqFWIAnxwmmjE")" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>