+++
date = 2021-04-12T22:57:54Z
title = "Why I Love the Tour De France"

+++
_I wrote this a couple years back, so modern-day editor's notes will be italicized_

It’s very un-American of me to associate the 4th of July with the start of the Tour de France, but I do. Don’t worry, chest-beating Americans, it’s a secondary thought stuffed somewhere behind blowing up colorful explosives in honor of our nation’s birth and drinking heavily regardless of the hour or day of the week.

<div class="tenor-gif-embed" data-postid="12205538" data-share-method="host" data-width="100%" data-aspect-ratio="1.7785714285714287"><a href="https://tenor.com/view/tour-de-france-tdf-gif-12205538">Tour De France GIF</a> from <a href="https://tenor.com/search/tourdefrance-gifs">Tourdefrance GIFs</a></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="https://tenor.com/embed.js"></script>

Now, the next logical question would be why watch the Tour? On paper, it’s a competition between a large field of rail-thin men peddling bikes–yes, bicycles–across the country of France for hundreds of miles a day over 21 stages to see who can do it in the least amount of time. Snooze.

However, the Tour de France represents some of the best sports programming on your television this summer (and every summer) because it's one the toughest tests of human endurance known to man. Add in men riding top-of-the-line, multi-thousand dollar racing bicycles at speeds ranging from 5 mph to 60 mph mere inches from each other’s wheels in packs often exceeding 100 riders for anywhere from an hour to six hours at a time.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Z7QubXYjAxA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Still no? Well, for us Americans, we like cheering for teams. They are easier to cheer for than individual players, and all you have to do is locate the nearest metropolis to find your allegiances. But some folks do like cheering for individuals; perhaps a bright young star on a team you don’t like or a former fan favorite traded away for cap space and players-to-be-named-later. Lucky for you, America, the Tour de France offers you the opportunity to do both.

This year \[_2019_\], 22 teams took to the roads of France for the Tour. If you wanted to cheer along national lines, the Colorado-based Education First team is your choice. If you like frontrunners, the powerhouse Team Ineos is your side \[_they won_\]. If you want to ride the long-suffering French cycling bandwagon (the last French winner of the Tour won the event in 1985), then the AG2R La Mondiale squad fits the bill. If you harbor a passion for Spanish telephone companies, then the Movistar outfit is for you.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gQH3EPY03Tg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

_This is Chris Froome, one of the best cyclists of the 2010s and a four-time TDF winner._

Though the teams compete against each other to get the most riders across the line the fastest, the main attraction is the race for the yellow jersey, worn each stage by the rider with the lowest overall time. Each eight-man cohort features a team leader, the man with the best shot at a stage win or a high finish in the overall classification. Though Americans cycling fans are still waiting patiently for an elite rider of that caliber to fill the void left by you-know-who, there are a bevy of top-tier potential winners to get behind. Even if all the digital ink I’ve wasted hasn’t gotten you any closer to finding your team or rider, perhaps I can convince you to tune in for a stage and find one.

<iframe src="[https://giphy.com/embed/iruSUE7oKeKFG](https://giphy.com/embed/iruSUE7oKeKFG "https://giphy.com/embed/iruSUE7oKeKFG")" width="480" height="265" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="[https://giphy.com/gifs/news-celebs-iruSUE7oKeKFG](https://giphy.com/gifs/news-celebs-iruSUE7oKeKFG "https://giphy.com/gifs/news-celebs-iruSUE7oKeKFG")">via GIPHY</a></p>

As mentioned, the race for the yellow jersey occupies center stage for good reason. The logistical nightmares associated with winning the Tour de France is precisely why the handful of riders that compete annually for yellow create such a captivating sporting event. To win the Tour, you must BEGIN the race with the following items; a team talented, healthy and deep enough to guide you to the finish, peak physical condition unaffected by illness, injury or fatigue from training and warm-up races, and a team infrastructure developed and efficient enough to keep your equipment intact and your body operating for the entire three weeks. Once the race begins, you must avoid injury and illness at all costs. Your teammates must also avoid injury and illness at all costs, as a depleted squad cannot protect and guide their captain to the finish line. Crashes happen nearly every stage, and staying on your bike is imperative to winning the Tour. You must account for the other riders gunning for the yellow jersey, marking their movements and countering their attacks to prevent too much time from slipping away. You must push your body to its physical limits for multiple hours and hundreds of miles every day for three weeks straight. Most important of all, you need a healthy dose of luck. An ill-timed flat tire, a spectator stumbling into the road, bad road conditions, mistakes by other riders leading to field crashes, cobblestones, wind, heat, food poisoning, a bad day on the bike and more can all derail a yellow jersey campaign in an instant.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dQzOM1fVqsQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If the long slog doesn’t wet your whistle, consider the three other jerseys awarded at the conclusion of the Tour. The green jersey goes to the best sprinter, the riders who don’t have the endurance to win the big show but represent a who’s-who of cycling’s fastest, most powerful drag racers. Nowadays, that jersey is perennially on the shoulder’s of the most interesting (bike racing) man in the world, Peter Sagan. The strategy, speed (usually a shade over 40 mph) and skill required for an effective sprint finish are reason enough to pay attention to the green jersey competition. For fans of endurance, the polka-dot jersey adorns the shoulders of the man who performs the best in the notoriously difficult mountain stages of the Tour. For Rookie of the Year lovers, the white jersey goes to the young (25 and under) rider who turns in the best time. In addition, each stage features its own hotly-contested search for a winner. For the majority of team riders, a stage win is their best hope for a moment of notoriety. This results in heroic performances from unheralded riders pulling themselves inside out for an afternoon in the spotlight, battling with top general classification contenders, sprinters, mountain specialists and other “role players” taking a crack at a stage win.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RohsW2mbWxk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

It’s tough to condense why you should watch the Tour de France down to a single reason or factor, so allow me to replay the hits. There’s plenty of avenues to fandom, whether it be for a team, an individual rider, underdogs, front runners, sprinters, mountain climbers, etc. Each day features, in one way or another, a special ride from the stage winner that is an inconceivable physical effort for \~99% of the world’s population. Each classification winner would be worth watching on their own, but they compete against and alongside each other for three weeks. There’s speed, danger, crashes, redemption stories, upstarts, underdogs, powerhouses and, most importantly, elite athletes at the peak of their abilities dueling with just their bodies and a bicycle across the mountains, plains, towns and cities of one of the most beautiful countries in the world. Even though there’s no balls, goals, fields, cheerleaders, hitting or tackling (plenty of contact though!), the man-and-his-machine nature of the race lends the Tour something American team sports lack. Not to get too prehistoric, but I contend it’s the idea of pushing the human body to its limits in direct competition with your fellow man that makes the race so appealing and entertaining. Even if you disagree, it might be a nice change of pace from a baseball game.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ngUh8w4gn08" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>