+++
date = 2021-04-02T01:40:03Z
draft = true
title = "Foul Balling"

+++
As a kid at baseball games, nothing excited me more than the remote possibility that I’d get my hands on a foul ball. The game itself? Boring and long. The players? Too far away, and usually not pros. Other fans? Drunk, sweaty, uninteresting. Gift shop? Mom says no, Dad says ask Mom. All those things I appreciate now, but they are tough to sell on an 8-year-old (except the gift shop). Still, by that point I knew how to catch a baseball. I knew they sometimes ended up in the stands during the game. And most importantly, I knew I wanted one.

It took me some time to make it happen. None of my early trips to Fenway Park yielded any luck, mostly because we were stuffed deep in right field, many rows up from the Pesky Pole. Older me would come to know that as a tough spot to hit a baseball. None of my trips to Fenway ever ended with a ball in hand, even after I swapped out the glove for a beer. To be fair, I only went to three or four during that time (the “bring your glove” era) and never had the favorable foul ball seats. But because I was so keen to catch one, I ended up glued to the game action and begging to stay until the last pitch.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TeKtnvh5_6k" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

With Fenway and the MLB a lost cause, I moved down to AAA. Keeping it within the Red Sox organization, my family made several trips down to Pawtucket, RI to watch the Paw Sox. The team was good and tickets were cheap–the ideal summer outing for the whole fam. The park, on the other hand, was ugly and plopped into a random sector of the city. Minor league baseball is supposed to be a bit quaint, a bit old-timey, and that may be true throughout the lower levels (AA, A, etc.). But because the Paw Sox had the money and Rhode Island has no pro sports, they gave it all the ugly updates the early 21st century had to offer. For us, that meant a below-average stadium that was always scorching hot and lacking shade with oddly steep banked seating ringing the infield. Better seats and a smaller stadium made no difference, and I was routinely skunked. We did one a summer for about four years, and all I had to show for it were sunburns and those little plastic helmets they use as ice cream bowls.

But the drought soon ended as I climbed further down the ladder. The Cape Cod Baseball League is the premier destination for…top collegiate players to keep their skills sharp playing summer ball. There’s something funny to me about a bunch of kids who grew up in the South and play for SEC schools scooping ice cream and living in the least Southern place in the world–Cape Cod. There’s only one team that isn’t physically on the Cape, and that’s the team closest to me. The Wareham Gatemen play behind the town’s public high school–a big high school, but a high school nonetheless. Their field was what you’d expect; two banks of wooden bleachers for the home fans, one bank for the visitors on the other side, a small announcer’s box behind the plate, merch table, snack shack and little else. Aside from the visiting bullpen cut into the side of a hill in left field, the most notable feature was the infield. Instead of regular brown dirt, Spillane Field sports some kind of gravelly grey mixture masquerading as dirt.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ksg0ahFv2K0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

_Weird hot dog eating aside, this is a pretty good lay of the land at Spillane Field_

Aside from the bleachers flanking home plate, the rest of the area surrounding the field was open. The school ended up blocking much of the third base side, but you could run up and down the corridor between building and field. Down the first base side was nothing but grass and woods. The games were free to attend, so we went a lot. By this point, I needed a foul ball badly. So badly, in fact, that when one started bouncing my way down the aforementioned corridor, I body-checked a younger, smaller child into the side of the school to get my hands on it. Unluckily, his dad watched me do it. In my mind, I got there first, but the guy seemed mad. I gave the kid the ball, didn’t apologize and walked away.

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/8c9JXDINO5TMnaBGkn" width="480" height="240" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/sunnyfxx-sunny-its-always-in-philadelphia-8c9JXDINO5TMnaBGkn">via GIPHY</a></p>

That underlines the issue with foul ball hunting at CCBL games; the pack of kids doing exactly the same thing. There was always a gaggle of children of various ages running around in the woods, parking lot and standing areas hunting baseballs. It got nasty on occasion; my hip check was a minor offense in comparison. Wrestling for foul balls in the grass was commonplace. But after watching and running and failing for years, I got my shot.

It was a during a night game, but the sun was still high enough to allow for chases into the woods. I was lingering near the press box behind home plate, hoping for a player to pop a ball backwards into my lap. Soon enough, I heard the aluminum ping and watched a ball sprayed foul out to the right, well over the stands and into the woods. Charging around the batting cages and towards the woods with my little sister right behind me, I thought I was too late. Half a dozen kids were already picking through the brush. Still, I dove in there after them. Prickers nipped at my shins as I stomped around, hoping to feel the ball under my feet. Suddenly, a glimpse of something white. I shot my hand out at the object, feeling the familiar seams and leathery exterior as I closed my fingers around it. I didn’t yell or celebrate; just a quick “I got it!” to call off the hunters and to claim my long-awaited prize.

All things considered, fishing a ball out of the woods at a college summer ball game played in front of 400 people is about as unimpressive as it gets. But at the time, I couldn’t have been prouder. Something I fixated on for years came to pass, and it was all because of me. I found the ball in the woods, which in my kid brain meant I was the best and a winner. As I got older, I came to the unfortunate realization that foul balls are worthless (and that I am not the best, or a winner). As far as I know, only Foul Ball Guy has managed a living catching them. And yet, adults will fling themselves down three rows of seats just to get a whiff. I contend that’s their kid brain waking up, remembering how excited it used to get in these moments and just shoving the adult brain out of the way so the actual adult can shove children out of the way. The older you get, chasing foul balls becomes harder to justify. But that doesn’t mean it’s not fun.