+++
date = 2021-03-09T02:33:03Z
title = "The Last Time I Didn't Make it to the Bathroom"

+++
Oddly enough, the last time I crapped myself occurred at a point in my life when I was in far better physical shape than I am now. Usually, as your health deteriorates, the ability to hold your solid waste also deteriorates. Defecating oneself is also a problem that mostly affects the two age groups at the tips of the human bell curve; infants and the elderly. A teenager, however, is thought to be approaching the prime of their physical powers and certainly not a likely candidate for such an episode. But, alas, life is funny sometimes.

Before diving into my tale of misery and woe, a couple disclaimers. First, there is no shame in such an event ONCE EVERY FEW YEARS. Sh*t happens; we’ve all been marooned in traffic or on the train or somewhere inexplicably lacking a commode when that feeling hits. If nothing else, I hope you found a bathroom in the aftermath of your little accident to try and piece back together whatever remains of your pride.

Second, skid marks do not count. I’m going to be talking about a complete bowel release, not a little rosebud left for the laundry. Finally, one more request. As you read this story, see if you can remember the last time (or any time, for that matter) that it happened to you. It’s a humorous way to sift through your memory because, as I’ve long maintained, poop is always funny.

<iframe style="width: 100%; border: none; display: block; max-width: 420px; height: 320px;" src="https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/391c933a-b5ec-4188-a447-f1a034fe8bd4/embed?autoplay=false"> </iframe>

In high school, I rowed competitively for four years; we raced in the fall and the spring, trained outside in the summer and spent winters on the machines in what was also the wrestling room. It was journey of mediocrity interspersed with brief flashes of brilliance that afforded me some neat opportunities to race in exotic locales such as St. Catherine’s, Ontario. For those who don’t know, SC sits just 20 minutes over the American border, meaning it is simply an extension of northwestern New York. But because it is technically Canada, the businesses you would expect to see in a similar American town were masquerading under pseudonyms. For example, SportChek is Dick’s Sporting Goods, Tim Horton’s is Dunkin’ Donuts. However, the one universal name brand store that will ultimately catalyze my little incident shone like a beacon in a wasteland of Canadian knockoffs, beckoning warmly to a hungry pack of American teenagers looking to eat as much as possible as quickly as possible.

Now, I am not a big chain pizza guy; I’ve spent most of my life in the Boston area and the Chicago area, two major metropolitan locations with actual pizza restaurants that serve actual pizza. In a pinch, I will absolutely indulge in some Domino’s, but again, not my thing. But this was our first night in Canada, nobody had a car, and we were traveling in a group of 20 on foot. With options and daylight dwindling, the red roof of Pizza Hut hove into view.

To be clear, this was the worst chain pizza restaurant I have ever been to–any brand, any state, any country. It took over an hour for them to make four calzones; four PIZZA HUT calzones. I don’t remember much about how it tasted, probably because I don’t want to. Let’s just assumed it sucked and keep moving.

Because we had been stuffed in the back of a van for 10 hours, I wolfed down my quadrant. I thought nothing of it until the next morning at 5 AM, when I found myself parked on the toilet pissing out of my ass. Now normally, ass pee can be managed with ease; don’t get too adventurous, plan your day carefully around locations with bathrooms you know and love, and wait for whatever it was that caused the brown rain to leave your system. In my experience, it’s a 12-to-24 hour phenomenon at the most and occasionally results in just two or three runny, loud dumps.

However, the reason I was up at 5 AM was because I had to be on the water at 6 AM to practice for the week’s races. I wasn’t worried yet; it felt like I had eliminated most of the offending calzone on the first try, and my stomach wasn’t particularly sore. I figured I could make it two or three hours and thought nothing of it until the precise moment we pushed off the dock.

For those who have never sat in a rowing shell, there is no bathroom on board. You sit about six inches off the water in a boat just wider than your hips, and you have about three feet to operate front to back. The issues for me began there; I had nowhere to go. I couldn’t jump into the water, I couldn’t force the boat back to shore because practice time was at a premium, and I certainly couldn’t let it go. That meant sitting there trying to row (a fairly strenuous, full-body physical activity) and not think about the storm brewing in my lower intestine or the fact that I easily could have nipped off to the bathroom before we started.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/KaUnKIsM2os" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

But the Pizza Hut calzone was far from finished with me, and about an hour into practice it was two-foot dropkicking the backdoor. I suffered silently, unable to do anything except clench as hard as I possibly could. It was exhausting work, and ten minutes from time I gave in. Even if I held on a bit longer, I would have lost it on the dock or on my way to the porta-potty. It was actually the best place for me to have a situation that day; because it was, of course, diarrhea , the viscosity and small size of the turd allowed it to be quickly washed off the deck of the boat with a couple big splashes of water. I rinsed down my legs and water bottle while I was at it, actually feeling pretty good about the whole thing heading to land. The black spandex hid the discoloration, the water washed away the evidence and the lake breeze took care of the smell. As I hustled around the staging area looking for a porta-potty, I really thought I might just get away with this one.

<iframe src="https://gifer.com/embed/74qW" width=480 height=384.000 frameBorder="0" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://gifer.com">via GIFER</a></p>

But in the final, cruelest twist of fate, I had actually picked the worst place on planet earth to sh_t myself. The bathrooms at a sporting event are about as prehistoric as the modern man gets, but rowing regattas are a different animal because they bring the porta-potty into play. There were hundreds of teams at this race, each with dozens of athletes and coaches, and precisely zero indoor commodes. It was the first week of August, and like the country it tries so hard to imitate, Canada also gets very, very hot around that time of the year. There were MAYBE six plastic palaces within reach, and all of them had been marinating in the sun for several days at the mercy of rather large athletes consuming their body weight in carbs. It was, for lack of a better word, a sh_tstorm of epic proportions.

The first hopper I visited made me gag, and there was no toilet paper. That would become a recurring theme, so eventually I got desperate. There was still residue on my ass and my thighs, but I had nothing to wipe with. I ran back to my bag and grabbed the only article of clothing I could spare: my boxers. I boogied back over to the nearest potty and tried to wipe the (now dry) refuse off myself before launching the underwear, the spandex shorts I had been wearing and my socks into the toilet. I allowed myself a brief, ultimately premature, sigh of relief.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Y4HSQKUAPKM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

While there were no visible signs of my ordeal, I had been missing for ten minutes and returned clearly free-balling in my gym shorts. Luckily for me, I was at a rowing event, a place where men can walk around naked save for a spandex diaper and nobody bats an eye. However, I quickly realized I needed to pass one more level before I could get a proper shower–the van ride back to the hotel. Remember, it’s August, and the van has been in the lot baking for three hours. I had been sitting in my own feces for the better part of an hour, and the extent of my cleaning was a rinse with muddy lake water followed by a quick wipe-down with a pair of thin boxers Packed into a hot van, that lingering smell bloomed. But my savior on this occasion was something I don’t think has ever benefitted me at any other time; the pungent, overwhelming body odor of the teenage male. Still, once the door closed, one sharp-nosed teammate was kind enough to point out, "It smells like sh*t in here." I kept my head down, my shirt over my nose, and twenty minutes later I took another horrific dump before finally getting into the shower.

To put a bow on this overwritten tale, nobody found out that the smell was me. Rather, nobody confronted me directly about it, even though I imagine the young man sitting behind me in the boat that day knew exactly what happened (he now works for Sean Hannity. I hope I got some crap on him). The calzone ravaged my lower intestine for the rest of the day and much of the next, but I wasn’t good enough to be rowing that often and managed to find a toilet each time brown rain entered the forecast. I have no idea what happened; I’m not lactose intolerant or allergic to any foods, so I'm going to place 100% of the blame on the [Pizza Hut in St. Catherine's, Ontario](https://www.google.com/search?tbs=lf:1,lf_ui:4&tbm=lcl&sxsrf=ALeKk03psdbd78nkUMTXNIKp13zS6shL1w:1617155891319&q=pizza+hut+st.+catharines&rflfq=1&num=10&ved=2ahUKEwit28qTt9nvAhVIQkEAHRPfDDUQtgN6BAgEEAc#rlfi=hd:;si:2637743176620312297;mv:\[\[43.18351608613695,-79.23869773955003\],\[43.17451886107085,-79.26058456511156\],null,\[43.179017639325956,-79.2496411523308\],16\]).

Most stories this long provide some sort of life lesson or deep insight into human nature, none of which I have handy. Still, I’ll do you the unnecessary courtesy of revealing what this little accident taught me.

1. Don't be ashamed to poop yourself (once every few years, if nobody finds out).
2. Be wary of chain pizza.
3. You are never in total control of your own anus.