+++
date = 2021-03-30T01:19:25Z
draft = true
title = "HotD 4/1 - "

+++
I'll make this quick(ish) since Lil Nas X's new music video for "MONTERO (Call Me By Your Name)" is all over the socials at the moment. Sparknotes version: he descends a stripper pole into hell, red braids swirling around him, to shake ass in the devil's face while wearing thigh-high leather boots and what I call ball-huggers (brief-style men's underwear). I'd suggest watching it for yourself; there's a lot going on, and it's all incredible.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6swmTBVI83k" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Predictably, the self-appointed gatekeepers of all that is holy and American fired up the faux outrage machine. Nothing new from the right; use Christianity as a weapon to be racist/homophobic under the guise of "protecting our children" and "restoring traditional American values." That's all it really is, and there are topics far more meaningful and people far more qualified to speak on all that than me. But I can smell this percolating and wanted to take some time to hate on two of the haters.

The appetizer here is Kristi Noem, the brain-dead, gun-toting governor of South Dakota. Before using Monday afternoon to tout her participation in a discriminatory executive order barring transgender women from participating in K-12 sports, she spent the Lord's Day #owning the libs. Unable to help herself or find something vaguely meaningful to do, she fired off this snappy little number.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Our kids are being told that this kind of product is, not only okay, it's "exclusive." But do you know what's more exclusive? Their God-given eternal soul.<br><br>We are in a fight for the soul of our nation. We need to fight hard. And we need to fight smart. We have to win. <a href="https://t.co/m1k1YWFpuo">https://t.co/m1k1YWFpuo</a></p>— Governor Kristi Noem (@govkristinoem) <a href="https://twitter.com/govkristinoem/status/1376239196709478400?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 28, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

First of all, Kristi, these are fire. I've always loved 97s. Second of all, God-given eternal soul? I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but if we're talking souls, yours is not in the greatest of shape. Just type "Kristi Noem scandal" into Google. Funny, I'm seeing lots of money-related transgressions in there–what was it the Bible said about the rich man getting into Heaven? But again, nothing new–another lazy attempt to make Evangelical white Christians feel persecuted. If this is what "fight hard, fight smart" looks like, I think the rest of us are gonna be just fine.

But the real treat is poopy pants gun girl. I don't know how to spell her name (Caytlin? Kaytlyn? Kaiytliyn?), but I like PPGG as an acronym. Anyway, she hit a triple word score in her responses–racism, homophobia (tweeting "At least I can procreate")and Karen victimhood. She's saying the quiet parts out loud again! All Lil Nas X did was call her shitty pants, and PPGG, like the good Karen she is, jumped off the porch with racism. And for funzies, she claimed Lil Nas X threatened to rape her father.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Do you still see your dad? <a href="https://t.co/yZhocQvvE5">https://t.co/yZhocQvvE5</a></p>— Kaitlin Bennett (@KaitMarieox) <a href="https://twitter.com/KaitMarieox/status/1376364462911987712?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 29, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Are people really this dumb? I know they are, but we've been having this conversation since before I was born. MUSIC is ART, it is a medium for SELF EXPRESSION. Lil Nas X is an artist, a gay icon and somebody who has made it abundantly clear he can, and will, do whatever he damn well pleases. Children will consume art, music especially, and connect with whatever resonates with them. Also, FWIW, Lil Nas X snaps the devil's neck at the end of the video–he defeated Satan by distracting him with ass. Kristi and PPGG aren't with killing the devil? The soul of this nation may truly be unsafe.

It's a rollout, folks; bad press is still good press, and this isn't even bad press. People love the video! None of the outraged parties would've known about or given a second thought to this song, video, the shoes, etc. if their shitty little interns hadn't tucked it away for faux-outrage Monday. Yes, it's one of the countless side effects of America's morally bankrupt politics, but it's so old. We did this dance with rock, then metal, then hip-hop. WE DID IT TWO MONTHS AGO WITH "WAP." Meanwhile, citizens are getting murdered by strangers with automatic weapons in grocery stores and nail salons, the AAPI community is under constant fear of targeted violence and the richest nation in the world approaches 600K COVID deaths. But remember everyone, the "Old Town Road" guy face-fucking the devil will be the death of us all. And you're all going to hell.

To wrap things up, the beautiful bit about microwave news cycles is that this won't be a story next week. The right will have moved on to something equally banal and unproductive, and the left will do the same. But stop doing this to music–nobody's making anybody listen to anything. Political music can be great and add a lot to larger conversations, but this is a pop song with some wild visuals. Lo and behold, he's not even the first musician to use Satanic imagery. Let artists create what they want, let people enjoy what resonates with them and, to borrow a talking point from the GOP, mind your business. In the meantime, watch Lil Nas X pick off trolls one by one.