+++
date = 2021-04-23T01:07:15Z
draft = true
title = "HotD 4/21- John Henry"

+++
It was only a matter of time before this loser found himself here, but it’s not for the reason I would’ve thought. For those unaware, [John Henry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_W._Henry) is the elfish owner of the Boston Red Sox, Liverpool FC, the Boston Globe, Roush Fenway Racing, NESN and a whole host of other crap he doesn’t need. According to the ever-reliable Wikipedia, his net worth checks in a shade under $3 billion in the year of our Lord 2000 and then 21.

Henry was in the news this week for trying to destroy European soccer. I’d be out of my depth trying to explain that debacle, but luckily The Athletic’s Adam Crafton has you covered; [this piece](https://theathletic.com/2532213/2021/04/20/dont-be-fooled-the-super-league-clubs-gambled-everything-and-they-blew-it/) is a good place to start. But I wanted to zero in on Henry specifically because this level of greed, disregard for his team’s fanbase and general air of shameless self-interest is nothing new to the good people of the Greater Boston area.

I won’t really talk about his destruction of The Boston Globe since the paper was well on its way to irrelevancy by the time he purchased it in 2013. It had lost 90% of its value in the 20 years before the sale. The M.O. in recent years for the billionaire crowd has been as follows; purchase a struggling newspaper, cut staff, milk for ad revenue and discard when the last drops have been wrung from the cloth. Though Henry’s process is taking a bit longer, that’s where things are headed (see The Chicago Tribune and Sports Illustrated for examples).

But because Henry’s in the news for attempting another cash grab with a sports franchise as his vehicle, I’d like to talk about the Red Sox. Henry bought the team after selling the Marlins in 2002 and, not long after, broke the 86-year-old Curse of the Bambino in 2004 (suck it, Cubs fans). That’s one of two good things he’s done; the other was [preventing the demolition of Fenway Park](https://chowderandchampions.com/2016/05/16/red-sox-fenway-park-nearly-torn/) in 2012. The park could use some updates, but it shouldn’t be bulldozed.

Though Henry’s reign has netted World Series win in ’04, ’07, ’13 and ’18, we’ve also had our share of lowlights. That includes last-place AL East finishes in ’12, ’14, ’15 and ’20, the September 2011 collapse, followed by Bobby Valentine/chicken n’ beer and a murder’s row of bad free agency signings. I’ll get to those in a second, but last year was particularly egregious. I think, and hope, that this year’s squad will redeem some of what we saw last year, but that was unwatchable. If you, as the billionaire owner, demonstrate you don’t care by trotting that roster out there, then how can you expect the fans to care? I’ll put on my Boston sports douche hat for a second to say we expect, and deserve, better. In the only terms Henry knows–dollars and cents–the Red Sox are one of the most valuable franchises in the sport and the country. Your job, as the owner with endless pockets, is to give us something to watch. I don’t care about COVID, I don’t care about the payroll, I don’t care about you losing money. There are zero excuses for putting a team like that on the field under any circumstances.

As for the free agent side of things, that’s where we entered unforgivable territory. There were a couple bad ones from the late 2000s, but things really kicked off with Carl Crawford. That was a seven-year, $142 million deal, and we only saw Carl for two of those years. His final play was botching a line drive to left field, capping off the historic September 2011 collapse. Next up: Pablo Sandoval for five years and $90 million. There was the Instagram scandal, the year where he only played three games and, in the end, 161 games of piss poor play over 3 seasons. Even David Price for seven years and $217 million (yes, over $200 mill) was awful. He was great in the 2018 playoffs/World Series, but not $217 million great. He lasted four seasons, which was fantastic considering the company he’s keeping here.

Given Henry’s eagerness to throw gobs of money at other team’s stars and blasting through the tax ceiling in the process, you’d think he’d do so for Mookie. But the second a homegrown talent revealed himself to be a generational talent, that’s when Henry decided to tighten the purse strings. He was so uncomfortable with the idea of paying someone already on his books the MLB equivalent of a max deal that he shipped that player across the country. Come to think of it, the fact that it was the Dodgers with the wherewithal to dump a huge deal in his lap is the biggest condemnation of all. It would've been worse if it were the Yankees, of course, but the Dodgers have the same aspirations as BOS/NYY. They want to be THE team, and they already had the World Series-winning roster. Even if they lost everyone else, they have a superstar to lead their team through the next decade. The Red Sox, on the other hand, let that player walk away. The most heartbreaking part of the deal was nobody wanted it to happen; Mookie wanted to stay, the fans wanted him to stay, but John f*cking Henry didn’t want to pay. It "makes sense" from a financial standpoint, but c'mon. After years of spending like there was no tomorrow, he got cheap with the only generational talent (Papi and maybe Manny aside) that he’s ever had as owner.

That’s exactly why none of the European Super League stuff is surprising. John Henry has already demonstrated he doesn’t care about the fans, the teams, the history, what it means to people, or anything beyond his bottom line. He’s a disgusting person, but sadly, it's par for the course. Again, I’m out of my depth on the ESL debate, but the obvious silver lining to me is the fact that the fans demonstrated their immense power. Somehow, even the JP Morgan asswipes called in to forecast the repetitional consequences of the move failed to account for the team’s fans turning on the owners. I can only hope American sports fans find that energy and keep it, with soulless, greedy, malignant, idiotic owners like John Henry moving forward.